Chapter 3 Review (#47)
tidy-survey-r/tidy-survey-book: 03-specifying-sample-designs.Rmd

# Specifying sample designs and replicate weights in srvyr {#c03-specifying-sample-designs}

<!-- author review -->

> The primary reason for using packages like {survey} and {srvyr} is to incorporate the sampling design or replicate weights into estimates. By incorporating the sampling design or replicate weights, precision estimates (e.g., standard errors and confidence intervals) are appropriately calculated. In this chapter, we will introduce common sampling designs and common types of replicate weights, the mathematical methods for calculating estimates and standard errors for a given sampling design, and the R syntax to specify the sampling design or replicate weights. While we will show the math behind the estimates, the functions in these packages will do the calculation. To deeply understand the math and the derivation, refer to @sarndal2003model, @wolter2007introduction, or @fuller2011sampling.

Reviewer: Suggestion to make less repetitive and to use active voice.

```suggestion
The primary reason for using packages like {survey} and {srvyr} is to incorporate the sampling design or replicate weights into estimates. These tools allow us to appropriately calculate precision estimates (e.g., standard errors and confidence intervals). In this chapter, we will introduce common sampling designs and common types of replicate weights, the mathematical methods for calculating estimates and standard errors for a given sampling design, and the R syntax to specify the sampling design or replicate weights. While we will show the math behind the estimates, the functions in these packages will do the calculation. To deeply understand the math and the derivation, refer to @sarndal2003model, @wolter2007introduction, or @fuller2011sampling.
```

> The general process for estimation in the {srvyr} package is to:

Reviewer: Just a note to standardize this across chapters (example: add `()` after function names)

- population size, generally denoted as $N$, is the number of units in the population
- sampling frame, the list of units from which the sample is drawn

### Simple random sample without replacement

- **Description**: The simple random sample (SRS) without replacement is a sampling design where a fixed sample size is selected from a sampling frame, and every possible subsample has an equal probability of selection.
- **Requirements**: The sampling frame must include the entire population.
- **Advantages**: SRS requires no information about the units apart from contact information.
- **Disadvantages**: The sampling frame may not be available for the entire population. This design is not generally feasible for in-person data collection.
- **Example**: Randomly students in a university from a roster provided by the registrar's office. 

#### The math {-}

The estimate for the population mean of variable $y$ is: 

$$\bar{y}=\frac{1}{n}\sum_{i=1}^n y_i$$

and the estimate of the standard error of the mean is:

$$se(\bar{y})=\sqrt{\frac{s^2}{n}\left( 1-\frac{n}{N} \right)}$$ where

$$s^2=\frac{1}{n-1}\sum_{i=1}^n\left(y_i-\bar{y}\right)^2.$$

> This standard error estimate might look very similar to equations in other applications except for the part on the right side of the equation: $1-\frac{n}{N}$. This is called the finite population correction factor (FPC), and if the size of the frame, $N$, is very large, the FPC is negligible, so it is often ignored.  

Reviewer 2: Do we want to provide examples as to what the other applications that the se would look similar?

Reviewer 2: @szimmer can you clarify where you were going for here with "other applications"?

> # Specifying sample designs and replicate weights in srvyr {#c03-specifying-sample-designs}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Specifying sample designs and replicate weights in {srvyr} {#c03-specifying-sample-designs}
```

<!-- author review -->

> The primary reason for using packages like {survey} and {srvyr} is to incorporate the sampling design or replicate weights into estimates. By incorporating the sampling design or replicate weights, precision estimates (e.g., standard errors and confidence intervals) are appropriately calculated. In this chapter, we will introduce common sampling designs and common types of replicate weights, the mathematical methods for calculating estimates and standard errors for a given sampling design, and the R syntax to specify the sampling design or replicate weights. While we will show the math behind the estimates, the functions in these packages will do the calculation. To deeply understand the math and the derivation, refer to @sarndal2003model, @wolter2007introduction, or @fuller2011sampling. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The primary reason for using packages like {survey} and {srvyr} is to incorporate the sampling design or replicate weights into estimates. By incorporating the sampling design or replicate weights, precision estimates (e.g., standard errors and confidence intervals) are appropriately calculated.

In this chapter, we will introduce common sampling designs and common types of replicate weights, the mathematical methods for calculating estimates and standard errors for a given sampling design, and the R syntax to specify the sampling design or replicate weights. While we will show the math behind the estimates, the functions in these packages will do the calculation. To deeply understand the math and the derivation, refer to @sarndal2003model, @wolter2007introduction, or @fuller2011sampling. 
```

## Common sampling designs

> A sampling design is the method used to draw a sample. Both logistical and statistical elements are considered when developing a sampling design. When specifying a sampling design in R, the levels of sampling are specified along with the weights. Each record of a weight is constructed so that the particular record represents that many units in the population. For example, in a survey of 6th-grade students in the United States, the weight associated with each responding student reflects how many students that record represents. Generally, the sum of the weights sum to the population total though some studies have the sum of the weights sum to the number of respondent records. 

Reviewer: Changed it slightly so it doesn't say "the x sums to the sum of y":
```suggestion
A sampling design is the method used to draw a sample. Both logistical and statistical elements are considered when developing a sampling design. When specifying a sampling design in R, the levels of sampling are specified along with the weights. Each record of a weight is constructed so that the particular record represents that many units in the population. For example, in a survey of 6th-grade students in the United States, the weight associated with each responding student reflects how many students that record represents. Generally, the sum of the weights corresponds to the total population size, although some studies may have the sum of the weights equal to the number of respondent records.
```

## Common sampling designs

> A sampling design is the method used to draw a sample. Both logistical and statistical elements are considered when developing a sampling design. When specifying a sampling design in R, the levels of sampling are specified along with the weights. Each record of a weight is constructed so that the particular record represents that many units in the population. For example, in a survey of 6th-grade students in the United States, the weight associated with each responding student reflects how many students that record represents. Generally, the sum of the weights sum to the population total though some studies have the sum of the weights sum to the number of respondent records. 

Author: ```suggestion
A sampling design is the method used to draw a sample. Both logistical and statistical elements are considered when developing a sampling design. When specifying a sampling design in R, the levels of sampling are specified along with the weights. Analysts construct weights so that the weight for each record represents that many units in the population. For example, in a survey of 6th-grade students in the United States, the weight associated with each responding student reflects how many students that record represents. Generally, the sum of the weights sum to the population total though some studies have the sum of the weights sum to the number of respondent records.
```

Some common terminology across the designs are:

> - sample size, generally denoted as $n$, is the number of units selected

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - sample size, generally denoted as $n$, is the number of units selected to be sampled
```

> - population size, generally denoted as $N$, is the number of units in the population

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - population size, generally denoted as $N$, is the number of units in the population
```

> - sampling frame, the list of units from which the sample is drawn

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - **sampling frame**, the list of units from which the sample is drawn
```

### Simple random sample without replacement

> - **Description**: The simple random sample (SRS) without replacement is a sampling design where a fixed sample size is selected from a sampling frame, and every possible subsample has an equal probability of selection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The simple random sample (SRS) without replacement is a sampling design where a fixed sample size is selected from a sampling frame, and every possible subsample has an equal probability of selection.
```

- **Requirements**: The sampling frame must include the entire population.
- **Advantages**: SRS requires no information about the units apart from contact information.
- **Disadvantages**: The sampling frame may not be available for the entire population. This design is not generally feasible for in-person data collection.
- **Example**: Randomly students in a university from a roster provided by the registrar's office. 

#### The math {-}

The estimate for the population mean of variable $y$ is: 

$$\bar{y}=\frac{1}{n}\sum_{i=1}^n y_i$$

> 

Reviewer: What do you think of adding a short explanation of what this means? Something like: "The symbol $\bar{y}$ represents the sample mean, which is obtained by summing up all the individual values of $y$ (represented by $y_i$) and dividing the sum by the total number of observations (denoted by $n$). This calculates the average value of the variable $y$ based on the given sample.

## Common sampling designs

> A sampling design is the method used to draw a sample. Both logistical and statistical elements are considered when developing a sampling design. When specifying a sampling design in R, the levels of sampling are specified along with the weights. Each record of a weight is constructed so that the particular record represents that many units in the population. For example, in a survey of 6th-grade students in the United States, the weight associated with each responding student reflects how many students that record represents. Generally, the sum of the weights sum to the population total though some studies have the sum of the weights sum to the number of respondent records. 

Reviewer: It would be nice to show a dummy example of this - row-level data with weights? Maybe it's something we can draw?

- **Requirements**: The sampling frame must include the entire population.
- **Advantages**: SRS requires no information about the units apart from contact information.
- **Disadvantages**: The sampling frame may not be available for the entire population. This design is not generally feasible for in-person data collection.

> - **Example**: Randomly students in a university from a roster provided by the registrar's office. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Example**: Randomly select students in a university from a roster provided by the registrar's office. 
```

 as_survey_design(fpc = fpcvar)
```

> where `dat` is a tibble or data.frame with the survey data, and `fpcvar` is a variable on the tibble indicating the sampling frame's size. If the frame is very large, sometimes the frame size is not provided. In that case, the FPC is not needed, and specify the design as:

Reviewer 2: > If the frame is very large

There is a "cutpoint" for what is considered large?  If so, we should consider adding that here.

```r

> des_srs2 <- dat %>%

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
srs2_des <- dat %>%
```

 as_survey_design(weights = wtvar, fpc = fpcvar)
```

where `wtvar` is the variable for the weight on the data. Again, the FPC can be omitted if it is unnecessary because the frame is large.

#### Example {-} 

> The {survey} package in R provides some example datasets that we will use throughout this chapter. Reading the documentation about these datasets provide detail on the variables. One of the example datasets we will use is from the Academic Performance Index (API). The API was a program administered by the California Department of Education, and the {survey} package includes a population file (frame) of all schools with at least 100 students and several different samples pulled from that data using different sampling methods. For this first example, we will use the `apisrs` dataset, which contains an SRS of 200 schools. For printing purposes, we create a new dataset called `apisrs_slim`, which sorts the data by the school district and school ID and subsets the data to only a few columns. The SRS sample data is illustrated below: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {survey} package in R provides some example datasets that we will use throughout this chapter. The dataset's documentation provides detailed information about the variables. One of the example datasets we will use is from the Academic Performance Index (API). The API was a program administered by the California Department of Education, and the {survey} package includes a population file (frame) of all schools with at least 100 students and several different samples pulled from that data using different sampling methods. For this first example, we will use the `apisrs` dataset, which contains an SRS of 200 schools. For printing purposes, we create a new dataset called `apisrs_slim`, which sorts the data by the school district and school ID and subsets the data to only a few columns. The SRS sample data is illustrated below: 
```

> ```{r}

Reviewer 2: Let's create a "set up" section at the beginning of the chapter that has the libraries needed.  This is the first chapter where we have code, so we may need a little extra info around what each of the packages does?

apisrs_slim
```

> School districts have identifiers `dnum` within counties, and schools have identifiers of `snum` within districts along with their names, `dname` and `sname`. The unique identifier for a school is `cds` which is unique within the state. Additionally, the `fpc` is included as `fpc` and the weight as `pw`. To create the `tbl_survey` object for this SRS data, the design should be specified as follows: 

Reviewer: Maybe this would work better as a bulleted list?

Reviewer 2: Made it into a table that I think works well.

> School districts have identifiers `dnum` within counties, and schools have identifiers of `snum` within districts along with their names, `dname` and `sname`. The unique identifier for a school is `cds` which is unique within the state. Additionally, the `fpc` is included as `fpc` and the weight as `pw`. To create the `tbl_survey` object for this SRS data, the design should be specified as follows: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
School districts have identifiers `dnum` within counties, and schools have identifiers of `snum` within districts along with their names, `dname` and `sname`. The unique identifier for a school is `cds` which is unique within the state. Additionally, the FPC is included as `fpc` and the weight as `pw`. To create the `tbl_survey` object for this SRS data, the design should be specified as follows: 
```

> School districts have identifiers `dnum` within counties, and schools have identifiers of `snum` within districts along with their names, `dname` and `sname`. The unique identifier for a school is `cds` which is unique within the state. Additionally, the `fpc` is included as `fpc` and the weight as `pw`. To create the `tbl_survey` object for this SRS data, the design should be specified as follows: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
School districts have identifiers of `dnum` within counties, and schools have identifiers of `snum` within districts along with their names, `dname` and `sname`. The unique identifier for a school is `cds` which is unique within the state. Additionally, the variable for `fpc` is called `fpc` and the weights are called `pw`. To create the `tbl_survey` object for this SRS data, the design should be specified as follows: 
```

summary(des_apisrs)
```

In the printed design object above, the design is described as an "Independent Sampling design," which is another terminology for SRS. The ids are specified as `1`, which means there is no clustering (a topic described later in this chapter), the fpc variable is indicated, and the weights are indicated. When looking at the summary of the design object, the population size is given as a summary of the probabilities (inverse of the weights). 

### Simple random sample with replacement

Similar to the SRS design, the simple random sample with replacement (SRSWR) design randomly selects the sample from the entire sampling frame.  However, while SRS removes sampled units before selecting again, the SRSWR instead replaces each sampled unit before drawing again, so units can be selected more than once.
  - **Requirements**: The sampling frame must include the entire population.
  - **Advantages**: SRSWR requires no information about the units apart from contact information.

>   - **Disadvantages**: The sampling frame may not be available for the entire population. This design is not generally feasible for in-person data collection. Units can be selected more than once, resulting in a smaller realized sample size. For small populations, SRSWR has larger standard errors than SRS designs.

Reviewer 2: Do we need to define what "smaller realized sample means"?

Also, the statement about small pops, does this meant that larger pops have smaller s.e. compare to SRS?  If so, should we add as an advantage?

summary(des_apisrs)
```

> In the printed design object above, the design is described as an "Independent Sampling design," which is another terminology for SRS. The ids are specified as `1`, which means there is no clustering (a topic described later in this chapter), the fpc variable is indicated, and the weights are indicated. When looking at the summary of the design object, the population size is given as a summary of the probabilities (inverse of the weights). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the printed design object above, the design is described as an "Independent Sampling design," which is another term for SRS. The ids are specified as `1`, which means there is no clustering (a topic described later in this chapter), the fpc variable is indicated, and the weights are indicated. When looking at the summary of the design object, the population size is given as a summary of the probabilities (inverse of the weights). 
```

Reviewer: To not have to add a space after a bunch of paragraphs, I think we should go through and capitalize FPC when appropriate.

Reviewer 2: This paragraph should move up before the "summary" statement in the code.  If we need to break out the code chunks then we should.  We really should have a common structure throughout that is description of what we're going to do/see, then see it.  This is common with tables and figures in scientific writing and we should try to implement that throughout.  Adding this comment here, but this should be consistent throughout the book.

> In the printed design object above, the design is described as an "Independent Sampling design," which is another terminology for SRS. The ids are specified as `1`, which means there is no clustering (a topic described later in this chapter), the fpc variable is indicated, and the weights are indicated. When looking at the summary of the design object, the population size is given as a summary of the probabilities (inverse of the weights). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the printed design object above, the design is described as an "Independent Sampling design," which is another terminology for SRS. The ids are specified as `1`, which means there is no clustering (a topic described later in this chapter), the fpc variable is indicated, and the weights are indicated. When we look at the summary of the design object, we see the distribution of the probabilities (inverse of the weights) along with the population size and a list of the variables in the dataset. 
```

#### The syntax {-} 

> If you had a sample that was drawn through SRSWR and had no nonresponse or other weighting adjustments, in R, you should specify this design as:  

Reviewer 2: Should we call out any differences between SRS & SRSWR?  If there are any?  Is it just a lack of fpc?

Reviewer 2: Yes do this.

- **Description**: A population is divided into mutually exclusive subpopulations (strata), and then samples are selected independently within each stratum.
- **Requirements**: The sampling frame must include the information to divide the population into groups for every unit.
- **Advantages**: This design ensures sample representation in all subpopulations. Often, for the same sample size as a SRS sample, the standard errors are smaller, so it is a more efficient design. This is true if the strata are correlated with outcomes. 
- **Disadvantages**: Auxiliary data may not exist to divide the sampling frame into groups, or the data may be outdated.
- Examples: 
 - **Example 1**: A population of North Carolina residents could be separated into urban and rural areas, and then a SRS of residents from both rural and urban areas is selected independently. This ensures there are rural residents in the sample.

>  - **Example 2**: There are three primary general-purpose law enforcement agencies in the US - local police, sheriff's departments, and state police. In a survey of law enforcement agencies, the agency type could be used to form strata. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **Example 2**: There are three primary general-purpose law enforcement agencies in the US - local police, sheriff's departments, and state police. In a survey of law enforcement agencies, the agency type could be used to form strata. 
```

> - **Description**: A population is divided into mutually exclusive subpopulations (strata), and then samples are selected independently within each stratum.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A population is divided into mutually exclusive subpopulations (strata), and then samples are selected independently within each stratum.
```

Reviewer 2: Should we add a definition in a call out box for mutually exclusive?

> - **Requirements**: The sampling frame must include the information to divide the population into groups for every unit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - **Requirements**: The sampling frame must include the information to divide the population into groups for every unit.
```

> - **Advantages**: This design ensures sample representation in all subpopulations. Often, for the same sample size as a SRS sample, the standard errors are smaller, so it is a more efficient design. This is true if the strata are correlated with outcomes. 

Reviewer: "This is true if the strata are correlated with outcomes." - Should we add why?

Reviewer 2: Agreed.  I also restructured the sentence as it was a bit awkward to me upon first read.

> - **Advantages**: This design ensures sample representation in all subpopulations. Often, for the same sample size as a SRS sample, the standard errors are smaller, so it is a more efficient design. This is true if the strata are correlated with outcomes. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - **Advantages**: This design ensures sample representation in all subpopulations. Often, for the same sample size as a SRS sample, the standard errors are smaller, so it is a more efficient design. This is true if the strata are correlated with outcomes. 
```

> - **Disadvantages**: Auxiliary data may not exist to divide the sampling frame into groups, or the data may be outdated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - **Disadvantages**: Auxiliary data may not exist to divide the sampling frame into groups, or the data may be outdated.
```

> - Examples: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Examples: 
```

>  - **Example 1**: A population of North Carolina residents could be separated into urban and rural areas, and then a SRS of residents from both rural and urban areas is selected independently. This ensures there are rural residents in the sample.

Reviewer: At least in the HTML book, these bullets don't indent past the first indentation.

Author: Yes, they need to be indented once more. I think the linting may have messed with it.

>  - **Example 1**: A population of North Carolina residents could be separated into urban and rural areas, and then a SRS of residents from both rural and urban areas is selected independently. This ensures there are rural residents in the sample.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **Example 1**: A population of North Carolina residents could be separated into urban and rural areas, and then a SRS of residents from both rural and urban areas is selected independently. This ensures there are rural residents in the sample.
```

### Clustered sampling

> - **Description**: A population is divided into mutually exclusive subgroups called clusters or primary sampling units (PSUs). A random selection of PSUs is sampled, and then another level of sampling is done within these clusters. There can be multiple levels of this selection. Clustered sampling is often used when a list of the entire population is not available, or data collection involves interviewers needing direct contact with respondents.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A population is divided into mutually exclusive subgroups called clusters or primary sampling units (PSUs). A random selection of PSUs is sampled, and then another level of sampling is done within these clusters. There can be multiple levels of this selection. Clustered sampling is often used when a list of the entire population is not available, or data collection involves interviewers needing direct contact with respondents.
```

> - **Requirements**: There must be a way to divide the population into clusters. Clusters are commonly structural such as institutions (e.g., schools, prisons) or geography (e.g., states, counties). 

Reviewer 2: These all need to be indented.

- **Advantages**: Clustered sampling is advantageous when data collection is done in person, so interviewers are sent to specific sampled areas rather than completely at random across a country. With cluster sampling, a list of the entire population is not necessary. For example, if sampling students, you do not need a list of all students but only a list of all schools. Once the schools are sampled, lists of students can be obtained within the sampled schools.
- **Disadvantages**: Compared to a simple random sample for the same sample size, clustered samples generally have larger standard errors of estimates.

> - Examples: 

Reviewer 2: The sub-bullets need to be double indented

#### The math {-}

Consider a population where there are $N$ clusters and $n$ clusters are sampled via SRS. Units within each sampled cluster are sampled via SRS as well. Let $M_i$ be the number of units in cluster $i$ and $\bar{y}_i$ be the sample mean of cluster $i$. Then, a ratio estimator of the population mean is:

> $$\bar{y}=\frac{\sum_{i=1}^n M_i \bar{y}_i}{ \sum_{i=1}^n M_i}$$

Reviewer 2: Do we need to define H as being the max # of strata?

The different types of replicate weights largely differ in step 1 - how the sample is divided into subsamples, and step 4 - which multiplication factors (scales) are used to multiply the variance.

### Balanced Repeated Replication (BRR) Method

> The BRR method requires a stratified sample design with two PSUs in each stratum. Each replicate is constructed by deleting one PSU per stratum using a Hadamard matrix. For the PSU that is included, the weight is generally multiplied by two but may have other adjustments, such as post-stratification. A Hadamard matrix is a special square matrix with entries of +1 or -1 with mutually orthogonal rows. Hadamard matrices must have one row, two rows, or a multiple of four rows. An example of a $4\times4$ Hadamard matrix is below: 

Reviewer 2: This may be a stupid question, but if I have it, then we may have a reader or two that has it as well :) 

How do you determine the size of the Hadamard matrix for this?

Reviewer 2: It is the multiple of 4 that is just bigger than the number of PSUs.

$$ \begin{array}{rrrr} +1 &+1 &+1 &+1\\ +1&-1&+1&-1\\ +1&+1&-1&-1\\ +1 &-1&-1&+1 \end{array} $$
The columns specify the strata and the rows the replicate. In the first replicate, all the values are +1, so in each stratum, the first PSU would be used in the estimate. In the second replicate, the first PSU would be used in stratum 1 and 3, while the second PSU would be used in stratum 2 and 4. In the third replicate, the first PSU would be used in stratum 1 and 2, while the second PSU would be used in strata 3 and 4. Finally, in the fourth replicate, the first PSU would be used in strata 1 and 4, while the second PSU would be used in strata 2 and 3.

#### The math {-}

A weighted estimate for the full sample is calculated as $\hat{\theta}$, and then a weighted estimate for each replicate is calculated as $\hat{\theta}_r$ for $R$ replicates. The standard error of the estimate is calculated as follows:

$$se(\hat{\theta})=\sqrt{\frac{1}{R} \sum_{r=1}^R \left( \hat{\theta}_r-\hat{\theta}\right)^2}$$

> Specifying replicate weights in R requires specifying the type of replicate weights, the main weight variable, the replicate weight variables, and other options. One of the key options is for `mse`. If `mse=TRUE`, variances are computed around the point estimate $(\hat{\theta})$, whereas if `mse=FALSE`, variances are computed around the mean of the replicates $(\bar{\theta})$ instead which looks like this: 

Reviewer 2: We may want to provide a brief example (sentence only) about when to use mse=TRUE vs mse=FALSE.

Reviewer 2: Yes, say that it will be found in the survey documentation.

$$se(\hat{\theta})=\sqrt{\frac{1}{R} \sum_{r=1}^R \left( \hat{\theta}_r-\bar{\theta}\right)^2}$$ where $$\bar{\theta}=\frac{1}{R}\sum_{r=1}^R \hat{\theta}_r$$

The default option for `mse` is to use the global option of "survey.replicates.mse" which is set to `FALSE` initially unless a user changes it. Unless documentation states otherwise, for BRR, set `mse` to `TRUE`.

#### The syntax {-} 

> Replicate weights generally come in groups and are sequentially numbered, such as PWGTP1, PWGTP2, ..., PWGTP80 in the American Community Survey (ACS) or BRRWT1, BRRWT2, ..., BRRWT96 in the 2015 Residential Energy Consumption Survey (RECS). This makes it easy to use some of the tidy selection^[dplyr documentation on tidy-select: https://dplyr.tidyverse.org/reference/dplyr_tidy_select.html] functions in R. For example, if a dataset had WT0 for the main weight and had 20 BRR weights indicated WT1, WT2, ..., WT20, we can use the following syntax (both are equivalent):

Reviewer 2: We should add citations for ACS and RECS throughout the book.

```r
des_brr <- dat %>%
  as_survey_rep(
    weights = WT0,

>     repweights = all_of(str_c("WT", 1:20)), 

Reviewer 2: Do we know if we can "highlight" this line somehow in the book like we do on the slides?  Would be helpful to call attention here and potentially in other code snipits throughout the book.

#### Example {-} 

> The 2015 RECS uses Fay's BRR weights with the final weight as NWEIGHT and replicate weights as BRRWT1 - BRRWT96 with $\rho=0.5$^[Using the 2015 microdata file to compute estimates and standard errors (RSEs): https://www.eia.gov/consumption/residential/data/2015/pdf/microdata_v3.pdf]. On the file, DOEID is a unique identifier for each respondent, TOTALDOL is the total cost of energy, TOTSQFT_EN is the total square footage of the residence, and REGOINC is the Census region. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The 2015 RECS^[Using the 2015 microdata file to compute estimates and standard errors (RSEs): https://www.eia.gov/consumption/residential/data/2015/pdf/microdata_v3.pdf] uses Fay's BRR weights with the final weight as NWEIGHT and replicate weights as BRRWT1 - BRRWT96 with $\rho=0.5$. On the file, DOEID is a unique identifier for each respondent, TOTALDOL is the total cost of energy, TOTSQFT_EN is the total square footage of the residence, and REGOINC is the Census region. 
```

Reviewer 2: It looked like the # was 0.5 squared where the foot note was before.

> To load any data in the book, use the function `read_rds_tsr()`, which reads the data file from a directory on OSF where all book data has been placed for sharing.  

Reviewer 2: Let's move this to the set up section of this chapter, or some overview in chapter 1. Thoughts?

    variables = c(DOEID, TOTALDOL, TOTSQFT_EN, REGIONC)
  )

> recs_des 

Reviewer 2: Noting that the repweight output is off the pdf page

> summary(recs_des) 

Reviewer 2: Noting that the repweight output is off the pdf page

  )
```

In specifying the design, the `variables` option was also used to include which variables might be used in analyses. This is optional but can make your object smaller. When printing the design object or looking at the summary, the replicate weight type is re-iterated as `Fay's variance method (rho= 0.5) with 96 replicates and MSE variances`, and the variables are included. No weight or probability summary is included in this output as we have seen in some other design objects.

### Jackknife method

There are three jackknife estimators implemented in {srvyr} - Jackknife 1 (JK1), Jackknife n (JKn), and Jackknife 2 (JK2). The JK1 method can be used for unstratified designs, and replicates are created by removing one PSU at a time so the number of replicates is the same as the number of PSUs. If there is no clustering, then the PSU is the ultimate sampling unit (e.g., unit). 

> The JKn method is used for stratified designs and requires two or more PSUs per stratum. In this case, each replicate is created by deleting one PSU from each stratum, so the number of replicates is the number of total PSUs across all strata. The JK2 method is a special case of JKn when there are exactly 2 PSUs sampled per stratum. For variance estimation, scaling constants must also be specified. 

Reviewer 2: In the second sentence "In this case..." I'm not sure I'm following what this means.  Does this mean rep1 removes 5 PSUs if there are 5 strata (one from each strata)?  That's what I'm reading it as, but then it could mean that if the stratas have different number of PSUs then some reps are potentially only removing 1 PSU and not 5.  You then reference that the number of replicates is the total number of PSUs across all strata so I think this sentence just needs to be clarified.  I'm really not following it.

Reviewer 2: Last sentence, "For variance estimation..." is the scaling constant always (R-1)/R?  If so let's put this here and not in the syntax section.

#### The syntax {-}

> To specify the Jackknife method, the type would be `JK1`, `JKn`, or `JK2`. Additionally, the overall multiplier for JK1 is specified with the scale argument, whereas the replicate-specific multiplier ($\alpha_r) is specified with the rscales argument. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To specify the Jackknife method, the type would be `JK1`, `JKn`, or `JK2`. Additionally, the overall multiplier for JK1 is specified with the scale argument, whereas the replicate-specific multiplier ($\alpha_r$) is specified with the scales argument. 
```

#### Example {-}

> The American Community Survey releases public use microdata with JK1 weights at the person and household level. This example includes data at the household level where the replicate weights are specified as WGTP1, ..., WGTP80, and the main weight is WGTP^[American Community Survey 2016-2020 5-Year PUMS File: https://www2.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/tech_docs/pums/ACS2016_2020_PUMS_README.pdf]. Using the {tidycensus} package^[tidycensus package: https://walker-data.com/tidycensus/], data is downloaded from the Census API. For example, the code below has a request to obtain data for each person in each household in two Public Use Microdata Areas (PUMAs) in Durham County, NC^[Public Use Microdata Areas in North Carolina: https://www.census.gov/geographies/reference-maps/2010/geo/2010-pumas/north-carolina.html]. The variables requested are NP (number of persons in the household), BDSP (number of bedrooms), HINCP (household income), and TYPEHUGQ (type of household). By default, several other variables will come along, including SERIALNO (a unique identifier for each household), SPORDER (a unique identifier for each person within each household), PUMA, ST (state), person weight (PWGTP), and the household weights (WGTP, WGTP1, ..., WGTP80). Filtering to records where SPORDER=1 yields only one record per household and TYPEHUGQ=1 filters to only households and not group quarters. 

Reviewer 2: need to cite ACS in first sentence.

Also the footnote after WGTP looks like WGTP cubed in the PDF.  Let's move up the footnote to a different place.

pums_in <- get_pums(
  variables = c("NP", "BDSP", "HINCP"),

>   state = "37", 

Reviewer 2: Do we want to reference these in the paragraph above when we talk about them.  People may not know what these are.

    scale = 4 / 80
  )

> des_acs 

Reviewer 2: Noting that the repweight output is off the pdf page

> summary(des_acs) 

Reviewer 2: Noting that the repweight output is off the pdf page

```

When printing the design object or looking at the summary, the replicate weight type is re-iterated as `Unstratified cluster jacknife (JK1) with 80 replicates and MSE variances`, and the variables are included. No weight or probability summary is included.

### Bootstrap Method

> In bootstrap resampling, replicates are created by selecting random samples of the PSUs with replacement. If there are $M$ PSUs in the sample, then each replicate will be created by selecting a random sample of $M$ PSUs with replacement. Each replicate is created independently, and the weights for each replicate are adjusted to reflect the population, generally using the same method as how the analysis weight was adjusted.  

Reviewer 2: "PSUs with replacement" should we just call this SRSWR as we have specified that above?

#### The math {-}

A weighted estimate for the full sample is calculated as $\hat{\theta}$, and then a weighted estimate for each replicate is calculated as $\hat{\theta}_r$ for $R$ replicates. Then the standard error of the estimate is calculated as follows:

> $$se(\hat{\theta})=\sqrt{\alpha \sum_{r=1}^R \left( \hat{\theta}_r-\hat{\theta}\right)^2}$$ 

Reviewer 2: what does alpha represent in here?

```

Note that the scale (\alpha) is usually provided in the documentation and is a constant, so it is not provided as a variable in the tibble.

#### Example {-}

Returning to the api example, bootstrap weights were constructed for a one-cluster design. Fifty replicate weights were created on a dataset `apiclus1_slim` which has some familiar variables, including cds, dnum, fpc, and pw but now additionally includes bootstrap weights pw1, ..., pw50. The scale $(\alpha)$ is $15/(14*49)=0.02186589$ 

```{r}

> #| label: samp-des-genbs

Reviewer 2: I think that this code should be included.  It's very confusing when reading it and we want people to be able to follow along.

    mse = TRUE
  )

> des_api1_bs 

Reviewer 2: Noting that the repweight output is off the pdf page

> summary(des_api1_bs) 

Reviewer 2: Noting that the repweight output is off the pdf page

```

As with other replicate design objects, when printing the object or looking at the summary, the replicate weights are provided along with the data variables.

## Understanding survey design documentation {#und-surv-doc}

> SRS, stratified, and clustered designs are the backbone of sampling designs, and the features are often combined in one design. Additionally, rather than using SRS for selection, other sampling mechanisms are commonly used, such as probability proportional to size (PPS), systematic sampling, or selection with unequal probabilities, which are briefly described here. In PPS sampling, a size measure is constructed for each unit (e.g., the population of the PSU or the number of occupied housing units) and then units with larger size measures are more likely to be sampled. Systematic sampling is commonly used to ensure representation across a population. Units are sorted by a feature and then every $k$ units are selected from a random start point so the sample is spread across the population. In addition to PPS, other unequal probabilities of selection may be used. For example, in a study of establishments that conducts a survey every year, an establishment that recently participated (e.g., participated last year) may have a reduced chance of selection in a subsequent round to reduce the burden on the establishment. To learn more about sampling designs, refer to @valliant2013practical, @cox2011business, @cochran1977sampling, and @deming1991sample.

Reviewer 2: Do we need to define what "establishments" are or will people know?

A common method of sampling is to stratify PSUs, select PSUs within the stratum using PPS selection, and then select units within the PSUs either with SRS or PPS. Reading survey documentation is an important first step in survey analysis to understand the design of the survey you are using and variables necessary to specify the design. Good documentation will highlight the variables necessary to specify the design. This is often found in User's Guides, methodology, analysis guides, or technical documentation (see Chapter \@ref(c04-understanding-survey-data-documentation) for more details).

> For example, the 2017-2019 National Survey of Family Growth (NSFG)^[2017-2019 National Survey of Family Growth (NSFG): Sample Design Documentation - https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/nsfg/NSFG-2017-2019-Sample-Design-Documentation-508.pdf] had a stratified multi-stage area probability sample. In the first stage, PSUs are counties or collections of counties and are stratified by Census region/division, size (population), and MSA status. Within each stratum, PSUs were selected via PPS. In the second stage, neighborhoods were selected within the sampled PSUs using PPS selection. In the third stage, housing units were selected within the sampled neighborhoods. In the fourth stage, a person was randomly chosen within the selected housing units among eligible persons using unequal probabilities based on the person's age and sex. The public use file does not include all these levels of selection and instead has pseudo-strata and pseudo-clusters, which are the variables used in R to specify the design. As specified on page 4 of the documentation, the stratum variable is `SEST`, the cluster variable is `SECU`, and the weight variable is `WGT2017_2019`. Thus, to specify this design in R, use the following syntax:

Reviewer 2: Should we put an example header above here?
